- [Instructor] Real-time apps are powered
by the WebSockets API
which was introduced to HTML at around the year 2011.
It alleviated some challenges of prior solutions
that were employed to give users
a field of real-time interactivity with the web server.
This video provides some useful context
around the technology behind real-time apps
that you may find helpful before you get started.
To best understand how real-time apps are developed today,
it's useful to pause and look at the major technology shifts
that have happened,
all in an effort to improve user experiences and wait times.
For a long time,
developers have been relying heavily
on asynchronous HTTP or XHR for short
for creating user interfaces that are much more responsive,
but XHR can make developing web applications
unnecessarily complex
because you need to use tricky polling techniques
to send data back and forth
between the browser and the server.
In addition to the complexity,
there's also the overhead involved with XHR development.
Each request has to send not only the request
but the HTTP header back and forth
between the browser and server
and there's often request retries
when a desired response isn't received
within an allowed connection timeframe.
With the introduction of WebSockets,
web browsers can now establish a persistent connection,
plus engage in a bidirectional conversation
wherein the web browser can send messages to the web server,
but also the web server can initiate a conversation
and send messages to the web browser.
Another improvement that WebSockets brings
is the reduced messaging overhead.
A message that used to be kilobytes
because of the necessary headers
can now be reduced down to mere bytes.
This is because of a frame-based data exchange approach.
One other notable difference,
some may call this a drawback,
but when using WebSockets,
message order is not guaranteed.
It may not be sequential
unlike with XHR style development
where you know that responses will be received
in the same order as the request.
This should be noted so that you know when it may be best
to rely on XHR and polling versus WebSockets.
Because WebSockets is a very low-level protocol
and more about the communications rules
between the browser and the server,
an application-level subprotocol
is most likely what you'll be using as a developer.
STOMP or Simple Text-Oriented Messaging Protocol
is what we'll be using for our sample chat app.
STOMP provides the messaging semantics
and defines a handful of useful frame types
that are mapped onto WebSockets.
It gives us the ability to do the simple tasks
like connecting, subscribing,
sending messages to the server,
or when a message is received from the server
triggering the onmessage event handler.
STOMP is a lightweight messaging protocol.
It assures that developers
can create client-side and server-side code
that is both language and platform agnostic.